syscals-strace/README.md, before:

### Linux syscall fundamentals
The goal of this repository is to teach how we interact with Linux kernel. To help with this task, lets create a `c` language binary. Assume that the source code is stored in a file called 'hello.c'. To compile the file 'hello.c' with gcc, use the following command:
```
$ sudo apt install gcc -y
$ gcc -Wall hello.c -o hello
$ ls
hello  hello.c
$ ./hello
Hello, world!
``` 
This compiles the source code in 'hello.c' to machine code and stores it in an executable file 'hello'. The option -Wall turns on all the most commonly-used compiler warnings---it is recommended that you always use this option.
```
$ strace -f ./hello
execve("./hello", ["./hello"], 0x7ffdd8664598 /* 26 vars */) = 0
brk(NULL)                               = 0x55e57530a000
arch_prctl(0x3001 /* ARCH_??? */, 0x7ffd8d47bb40) = -1 EINVAL (Invalid argument)
mmap(NULL, 8192, PROT_READ|PROT_WRITE, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_ANONYMOUS, -1, 0) = 0x7efd3ef8c000
access("/etc/ld.so.preload", R_OK)      = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
openat(AT_FDCWD, "/etc/ld.so.cache", O_RDONLY|O_CLOEXEC) = 3
newfstatat(3, "", {st_mode=S_IFREG|0644, st_size=23523, ...}, AT_EMPTY_PATH) = 0
mmap(NULL, 23523, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE, 3, 0) = 0x7efd3ef86000
close(3)                                = 0
openat(AT_FDCWD, "/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6", O_RDONLY|O_CLOEXEC) = 3
read(3, "\177ELF\2\1\1\3\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\3\0>\0\1\0\0\0P\237\2\0\0\0\0\0"..., 832) = 832
pread64(3, "\6\0\0\0\4\0\0\0@\0\0\0\0\0\0\0@\0\0\0\0\0\0\0@\0\0\0\0\0\0\0"..., 784, 64) = 784
pread64(3, "\4\0\0\0 \0\0\0\5\0\0\0GNU\0\2\0\0\300\4\0\0\0\3\0\0\0\0\0\0\0"..., 48, 848) = 48
pread64(3, "\4\0\0\0\24\0\0\0\3\0\0\0GNU\0i8\235HZ\227\223\333\350s\360\352,\223\340."..., 68, 896) = 68
newfstatat(3, "", {st_mode=S_IFREG|0644, st_size=2216304, ...}, AT_EMPTY_PATH) = 0
pread64(3, "\6\0\0\0\4\0\0\0@\0\0\0\0\0\0\0@\0\0\0\0\0\0\0@\0\0\0\0\0\0\0"..., 784, 64) = 784
mmap(NULL, 2260560, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_DENYWRITE, 3, 0) = 0x7efd3ed5e000
mmap(0x7efd3ed86000, 1658880, PROT_READ|PROT_EXEC, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_FIXED|MAP_DENYWRITE, 3, 0x28000) = 0x7efd3ed86000
mmap(0x7efd3ef1b000, 360448, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_FIXED|MAP_DENYWRITE, 3, 0x1bd000) = 0x7efd3ef1b000
mmap(0x7efd3ef73000, 24576, PROT_READ|PROT_WRITE, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_FIXED|MAP_DENYWRITE, 3, 0x214000) = 0x7efd3ef73000
mmap(0x7efd3ef79000, 52816, PROT_READ|PROT_WRITE, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_FIXED|MAP_ANONYMOUS, -1, 0) = 0x7efd3ef79000
close(3)                                = 0
mmap(NULL, 12288, PROT_READ|PROT_WRITE, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_ANONYMOUS, -1, 0) = 0x7efd3ed5b000
arch_prctl(ARCH_SET_FS, 0x7efd3ed5b740) = 0
set_tid_address(0x7efd3ed5ba10)         = 15082
set_robust_list(0x7efd3ed5ba20, 24)     = 0
rseq(0x7efd3ed5c0e0, 0x20, 0, 0x53053053) = 0
mprotect(0x7efd3ef73000, 16384, PROT_READ) = 0
mprotect(0x55e574949000, 4096, PROT_READ) = 0
mprotect(0x7efd3efc6000, 8192, PROT_READ) = 0
prlimit64(0, RLIMIT_STACK, NULL, {rlim_cur=8192*1024, rlim_max=RLIM64_INFINITY}) = 0
munmap(0x7efd3ef86000, 23523)           = 0
newfstatat(1, "", {st_mode=S_IFCHR|0620, st_rdev=makedev(0x88, 0x1), ...}, AT_EMPTY_PATH) = 0
getrandom("\xd2\xbd\x25\x1b\xdc\x50\xbd\xb8", 8, GRND_NONBLOCK) = 8
brk(NULL)                               = 0x55e57530a000
brk(0x55e57532b000)                     = 0x55e57532b000
write(1, "Hello, world!\n", 14Hello, world!
)         = 14
exit_group(0)                           = ?
+++ exited with 0 +++
```
Almost every line in the code snippet above are `syscalls`, we could easily examin any of them just by running man command, for example:
```
$ man newfstatat
DESCRIPTION
       These  functions  return information about a file, in the buffer pointed to by statbuf.  No permissions are required on the file itself,
       but—in the case of stat(), fstatat(), and lstat()—execute (search) permission is required on all of the  directories  in  pathname  that
       lead to the file.
...
```
Additionally we could check shared libraries (so files) used by our program.
```
$ ldd hello
	linux-vdso.so.1 (0x00007ffc48ffa000)
	libc.so.6 => /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6 (0x00007f1cb8528000)
	/lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2 (0x00007f1cb875d000)
```
Included header files could be located at `/usr/include`.

#### Syscalls functions made clear
To properly understand how to read an output of `strace -f ./hello`, it's important to understand that on complex applications syscalls could be printed in partly randomly. 
Line by line every syscall could be treated as a `function`, with a set of input variables. To check what exact content inside brackets means i.e `access("/etc/ld.so.preload", R_OK)` it has two variables separated by `,` so to find what `R_OK` means we need to read `$ man 2 access` -> `int access(const char *pathname, int mode);` which is pretty self explanatory.
```
$ man 2 access
ACCESS(2)                                             Linux Programmer's Manual                                             ACCESS(2)

NAME
       access, faccessat, faccessat2 - check user's permissions for a file

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int access(const char *pathname, int mode);

       #include <fcntl.h>           /* Definition of AT_* constants */
       #include <unistd.h>

       int faccessat(int dirfd, const char *pathname, int mode, int flags);
                       /* But see C library/kernel differences, below */

       int faccessat2(int dirfd, const char *pathname, int mode, int flags);

   Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

       faccessat():
           Since glibc 2.10:
               _POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200809L
           Before glibc 2.10:
               _ATFILE_SOURCE

DESCRIPTION
       access() checks whether the calling process can access the file pathname.  If pathname is a symbolic link, it is dereferenced.

       The  mode specifies the accessibility check(s) to be performed, and is either the value F_OK, or a mask consisting of the bit‐
       wise OR of one or more of R_OK, W_OK, and X_OK.  F_OK tests for the existence of the file.  R_OK, W_OK, and X_OK test  whether
       the file exists and grants read, write, and execute permissions, respectively.
```
It's pretty straightforward, we read doc an could find that `R_OK` it's mode specifies the accessibility and `R_OK` checks whether the file exists and grants read permissions. Same approach could be applied on other `syscalls`.

Commit message:

systems-calls: README file added intro to system calls for C wrapper function

syscals-strace/README.md, after:

### Intro
System call general details:
* A system call changes the processor state from user mode to kernel mode, and CPU can access protected kernel memory.
* The set of system calls is fixed. Each system call is identified by a uniq number.
* Each system call may have a set of arguments the specify information to be transferred from user space(i.e the process virual address space) to kernel space and vice versa.

From programming point of view, invoking system call looks much like calling a C function. However, behind the scenes many steps occur.
1. The application program makes a system call by invoking a wrapper function in the C library.
2. The wrapper func must take all of the system call arguments available to the system call trap-handling routine. These args are passed to the wrapper via the stack, but the kernek expects them in specific registers.
3. Since all system calls enter the kernel in the same way, the kernel needs some method of identifying the system call. To permit this, the wrapper func copies the system call number into a specific CPU register(%eax)
4. The wrapper func executes a trap machine instruction (int 0x80), which causes the processor to switch from user mode to kernel mode and execute code pointed to by location 0x80 (128 decimal).
5. In response to trap to location 0x80, the kernel invokes its system_call() routine (located in the assembler file arch/i386/entry.S) to handle the trap:
a) Saves register values onto the kernel stack.
b) Checks the validity of the system call number.
c) Invokes the appropriate system call service routine, which is found by using the system call number to index a table of all system call service routines. Then service routine performes the required task, which may invoke modifying values at address specified in the given arguments and transfering data between user memory and kernel memory. Finally the service routine returns a result status to the system_call() routine.
d) Restores register values from the kernel stack and places the system call return value to the stack.
e) Returns to the wrapper function, simultaneously returning the processor to user mode.  

### Linux syscall fundamentals
The goal of this repository is to teach how we interact with Linux kernel. To help with this task, lets create a `c` language binary. Assume that the source code is stored in a file called 'hello.c'. To compile the file 'hello.c' with gcc, use the following command:
```
$ sudo apt install gcc -y
$ gcc -Wall hello.c -o hello
$ ls
hello  hello.c
$ ./hello
Hello, world!
``` 
This compiles the source code in 'hello.c' to machine code and stores it in an executable file 'hello'. The option -Wall turns on all the most commonly-used compiler warnings---it is recommended that you always use this option.
```
$ strace -f ./hello
execve("./hello", ["./hello"], 0x7ffdd8664598 /* 26 vars */) = 0
brk(NULL)                               = 0x55e57530a000
arch_prctl(0x3001 /* ARCH_??? */, 0x7ffd8d47bb40) = -1 EINVAL (Invalid argument)
mmap(NULL, 8192, PROT_READ|PROT_WRITE, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_ANONYMOUS, -1, 0) = 0x7efd3ef8c000
access("/etc/ld.so.preload", R_OK)      = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
openat(AT_FDCWD, "/etc/ld.so.cache", O_RDONLY|O_CLOEXEC) = 3
newfstatat(3, "", {st_mode=S_IFREG|0644, st_size=23523, ...}, AT_EMPTY_PATH) = 0
mmap(NULL, 23523, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE, 3, 0) = 0x7efd3ef86000
close(3)                                = 0
openat(AT_FDCWD, "/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6", O_RDONLY|O_CLOEXEC) = 3
read(3, "\177ELF\2\1\1\3\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\3\0>\0\1\0\0\0P\237\2\0\0\0\0\0"..., 832) = 832
pread64(3, "\6\0\0\0\4\0\0\0@\0\0\0\0\0\0\0@\0\0\0\0\0\0\0@\0\0\0\0\0\0\0"..., 784, 64) = 784
pread64(3, "\4\0\0\0 \0\0\0\5\0\0\0GNU\0\2\0\0\300\4\0\0\0\3\0\0\0\0\0\0\0"..., 48, 848) = 48
pread64(3, "\4\0\0\0\24\0\0\0\3\0\0\0GNU\0i8\235HZ\227\223\333\350s\360\352,\223\340."..., 68, 896) = 68
newfstatat(3, "", {st_mode=S_IFREG|0644, st_size=2216304, ...}, AT_EMPTY_PATH) = 0
pread64(3, "\6\0\0\0\4\0\0\0@\0\0\0\0\0\0\0@\0\0\0\0\0\0\0@\0\0\0\0\0\0\0"..., 784, 64) = 784
mmap(NULL, 2260560, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_DENYWRITE, 3, 0) = 0x7efd3ed5e000
mmap(0x7efd3ed86000, 1658880, PROT_READ|PROT_EXEC, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_FIXED|MAP_DENYWRITE, 3, 0x28000) = 0x7efd3ed86000
mmap(0x7efd3ef1b000, 360448, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_FIXED|MAP_DENYWRITE, 3, 0x1bd000) = 0x7efd3ef1b000
mmap(0x7efd3ef73000, 24576, PROT_READ|PROT_WRITE, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_FIXED|MAP_DENYWRITE, 3, 0x214000) = 0x7efd3ef73000
mmap(0x7efd3ef79000, 52816, PROT_READ|PROT_WRITE, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_FIXED|MAP_ANONYMOUS, -1, 0) = 0x7efd3ef79000
close(3)                                = 0
mmap(NULL, 12288, PROT_READ|PROT_WRITE, MAP_PRIVATE|MAP_ANONYMOUS, -1, 0) = 0x7efd3ed5b000
arch_prctl(ARCH_SET_FS, 0x7efd3ed5b740) = 0
set_tid_address(0x7efd3ed5ba10)         = 15082
set_robust_list(0x7efd3ed5ba20, 24)     = 0
rseq(0x7efd3ed5c0e0, 0x20, 0, 0x53053053) = 0
mprotect(0x7efd3ef73000, 16384, PROT_READ) = 0
mprotect(0x55e574949000, 4096, PROT_READ) = 0
mprotect(0x7efd3efc6000, 8192, PROT_READ) = 0
prlimit64(0, RLIMIT_STACK, NULL, {rlim_cur=8192*1024, rlim_max=RLIM64_INFINITY}) = 0
munmap(0x7efd3ef86000, 23523)           = 0
newfstatat(1, "", {st_mode=S_IFCHR|0620, st_rdev=makedev(0x88, 0x1), ...}, AT_EMPTY_PATH) = 0
getrandom("\xd2\xbd\x25\x1b\xdc\x50\xbd\xb8", 8, GRND_NONBLOCK) = 8
brk(NULL)                               = 0x55e57530a000
brk(0x55e57532b000)                     = 0x55e57532b000
write(1, "Hello, world!\n", 14Hello, world!
)         = 14
exit_group(0)                           = ?
+++ exited with 0 +++
```
Almost every line in the code snippet above are `syscalls`, we could easily examin any of them just by running man command, for example:
```
$ man newfstatat
DESCRIPTION
       These  functions  return information about a file, in the buffer pointed to by statbuf.  No permissions are required on the file itself,
       but—in the case of stat(), fstatat(), and lstat()—execute (search) permission is required on all of the  directories  in  pathname  that
       lead to the file.
...
```
Additionally we could check shared libraries (so files) used by our program.
```
$ ldd hello
	linux-vdso.so.1 (0x00007ffc48ffa000)
	libc.so.6 => /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6 (0x00007f1cb8528000)
	/lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2 (0x00007f1cb875d000)
```
Included header files could be located at `/usr/include`.

#### Syscalls functions made clear
To properly understand how to read an output of `strace -f ./hello`, it's important to understand that on complex applications syscalls could be printed in partly randomly. 
Line by line every syscall could be treated as a `function`, with a set of input variables. To check what exact content inside brackets means i.e `access("/etc/ld.so.preload", R_OK)` it has two variables separated by `,` so to find what `R_OK` means we need to read `$ man 2 access` -> `int access(const char *pathname, int mode);` which is pretty self explanatory.
```
$ man 2 access
ACCESS(2)                                             Linux Programmer's Manual                                             ACCESS(2)

NAME
       access, faccessat, faccessat2 - check user's permissions for a file

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       int access(const char *pathname, int mode);

       #include <fcntl.h>           /* Definition of AT_* constants */
       #include <unistd.h>

       int faccessat(int dirfd, const char *pathname, int mode, int flags);
                       /* But see C library/kernel differences, below */

       int faccessat2(int dirfd, const char *pathname, int mode, int flags);

   Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

       faccessat():
           Since glibc 2.10:
               _POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200809L
           Before glibc 2.10:
               _ATFILE_SOURCE

DESCRIPTION
       access() checks whether the calling process can access the file pathname.  If pathname is a symbolic link, it is dereferenced.

       The  mode specifies the accessibility check(s) to be performed, and is either the value F_OK, or a mask consisting of the bit‐
       wise OR of one or more of R_OK, W_OK, and X_OK.  F_OK tests for the existence of the file.  R_OK, W_OK, and X_OK test  whether
       the file exists and grants read, write, and execute permissions, respectively.
```
It's pretty straightforward, we read doc an could find that `R_OK` it's mode specifies the accessibility and `R_OK` checks whether the file exists and grants read permissions. Same approach could be applied on other `syscalls`.
